---
layout: post
title: "demo"
date: 2022-08-05
description: "demo"
tag: script demo
---

## Introduction

Good morning/afternoon/evening/night
I’m Chris. I have 6 years experience as a full stack/Java developer.

I have experienced in building applications using Java, Spring MVC, JDBC, and Hibernate. I've also built microservices using Spring Boot, Eureka, and the Feign Client. For testing, I am familiar with Junit, Mockito, JaCoCo, and Selenium. I have experience with MySQL and MongoDB for databases.
As the Cloud services, I've had hands-on experience with AWS S3, RDS, EC2, Cloud9.
Also, I am familiar with frontend like React or Angular.

I currently work for Bolt, Bolt provides a simple way for merchant customers to checkout and make payments. My team is responsible for order management and my role is build and maintain the order tracking related microservice.

### Responsibilities

My team and I are responsible for order management. I was involved in developing and maintaining the order tracking related microservices, including order tracking and notification microservice. Beside these, I am also responsible for building the order tracking page using Angular. During the development, I used Factory design pattern to decoupled the app and provide an uniformed interface to handle the order tracking data provided by different carriers Apis.

### Challenges

#### `Performance Challenge:`

When `Seasonal offers` come, like `flash sales`, sometimes customers can not `see their status after placing` the order, this is a damage to the user experience.

To address this problem, I `debugged` the logs. We found that when we send many requests to external carrier api in a short time (like above 200), some of the requests were blocked or got responses around 3-5s, generally it will respond within 1s. After searching, this may be due to their `Api protection mechanism`.

To solve this problem, I did thorough research and analyzed potential approaches. I considered solutions like synchronous processing with timeout and showing some error message, but this approach still degrades the user experience.

I also looked at how other organizations were handling similar challenges. I found that Async processing using message queue and the retry mechanism were also a good solution here to deal with it. When the carrier service responds slowly or the requests are blocked, instead of using timeout, we can queue up the request for later processing and show on frontend due to the line busy, please wait for 5-10s, and this is also good for load balancing. When processing requests in a queue, if still no response, we will resend the request.

I discussed with other team members to gather some opinions. To validate this I set up a simplified service that demonstrated how queuing requests can improve the application resilience. After that I solved this problem by using kafka.

From then, the lost rate of the requests decreased significantly and it improved the user experience

#### `Factory design pattern Challenge:`

Initially, the code for managing carrier data was hard-coded. But as the company grew, we encountered a challenge – each carrier had its own distinctive data format. This led to a situation where the data logic layer of our service became tightly coupled and it is hard to maintain the code.

To tackle this challenge, I used the factory design pattern to create a Factory class. It encapsulates the logic for creating carrier data handlers. Each data handler is responsible for handling one carrier api and processing the data. The Factory class will choose the handler class according to the carrier information provided.

After that, when we need to support a new carrier, I will create a new data handler class and extend the handler interface. Then update the Factory to include the new handler. With this, the business logic is decoupled, Each handler can be tested independently.It improves the maintainability and testability of the service.

## What is your daily life like?

We hold daily standard meetings at 10 am, and after that we may have some one-on-one meetings with coworkers or with the external team in the afternoon. At other times, I am working on my own tasks, like coding, write docs, or do some research and code review. Also there will be the weekly meeting on Thursday afternoon.

**(only say when asked about Agile)**  
We work in Agile, we have a sprint every two weeks and we release a new version every two sprint. Generally I got 1-4 tickets per sprint depending on the sprint size. We hold planning meetings ahead of each sprint and review meetings at the end of each sprint. After each quarter around three months, we have retrospective meeting to discuss the following sprints and the goals for the next quarter.

## How do you test or deploy your code?

I am responsible for unit tests, and I will run the test to achieve 90% code coverage. For other tests like integration tests or API tests, we have a CI/CD pipeline, which will run other tests automatically (this is provided by the QA team). After making sure the unit test passed, I will commit the code to my branch (it will trigger the automation tests, this is handled by the devops team, we use Jenkins, Docker, AWS EKS for the CI/CD pipeline) After passing the test, I will create a pull request. Then I will ask my team members to review my code and merge the code to the master branch.

After several commits, we will release the new version to the production environment.

## Tell me about a time you had a conflict with your colleagues or manager in the workplace, how did you solve it?

In a recent project, I had a difference of opinion with my manager over the choice of a message broker for our order tracking service. Initially, I proposed using AWS (SQS) because it seemed like a convenient option given our existing infrastructure on AWS. However, my manager suggested using Kafka instead.

To address this conflict, I scheduled a one-on-one meeting with my manager to discuss our viewpoints. During the meeting, I explained why I preferred AWS SQS, emphasizing its compatibility with our current cloud services, like RDS and S3. I argued that even using kafka, we still need to deploy it somewhere.

My manager, on the other hand, was concerned about the potential risk of vendor lock-in. They made a valid point about the potential risks of relying solely on AWS, especially if some day aws goes down. He believed that using Kafka offered more flexibility for future migrations, such as using GCP.

It became clear that we considered from different perspectives. I know the importance of avoiding vendor lock-in and appreciated my manager's forward-thinking approach. Instead of being stubborn about my viewpoint, I chose to use kafka.

## What would you do if you are running late on a project and you will miss the deadline?

I will communicate transparently with my manager and the relevant team members, I think effective communication is crucial.

I once had a ticket to fix a critical bug, and while I was in the middle of debugging, another essential service that I depended on crushed unexpectedly. At that point, I realized that the downtime of this service could significantly delay my progress.

So, I reported the situation to my manager. At the same time, I reached out to the coworker responsible for that service. I explained the urgency of the situation, and inquired about the expected recovery time. In the end, after discussed with my manager and collaborating with the coworker, we decided to reschedule the estimated time for the ticket.

Open and effective communication should be a good solution.

## Tell me about a time that you had to multitask.

Multitasking is a common thing in the workplace, and I've had several experiences.

I had several features to implement and deploy within a short time, while handling an urgent issue in the production environment and coordinating with my coworkers to discuss business requirements.

Initially, these tasks did seem overwhelming, but I've gradually summarized an approach to handle such situations. The key is to prioritize the tasks. I start by assessing the urgency and importance of each task.

I then break down each task into smaller, manageable pieces. This makes it easier to focus on one sub-task at a time. For instance, I might divide feature implementation into smaller development and testing phases and prioritize them based on deadlines and dependencies.

To deal with production issues, I ensure that I address the most critical problem and communicate with team effectively.

By gradually working through each task and systematically prioritizing and breaking them down into manageable chunks, I've found that I can handle multiple tasks.

## Tell me about a time when you had to learn a new technology.

For frontend, I am initially using HTML and CSS, JSTL stuff. At Bolt, we use Angular for frontend, so this is an exciting opportunity to enhance my skills by learning Angular.

The challenge was to transition from the static web page to dynamic and interactive web pages.
To get familiar quickly, I began with official online tutorials and dedicated courses, which provide me with a solid foundation.

However, the real learning occurred when I had to apply this in practice. It is really easy to be confused by the two way binding when implementing the pages, I often relied on the Angular community and online forums for guidance to fix issues. It was a steep learning curve, but the sense of accomplishment when I successfully built the pages.

I not only learned Angular but also gained a deeper understanding of modern web development architecture. It is really efficient and well structured. After this I am more willing to explore other new technologies.

## What’s your company’s location? What’s your team size and their roles? What’s the names of a few of your team members and the team lead?

My company is located in San Francisco, I am working remotely. My team has 9 people, 3 full stack, 3 backend, 2 testing and 1 devops. Shi(Ricky) Yan, Brennan, Paul is the team lead

## When did you graduate? (Bachelor/masters) How do you have x amount of YOE if you recently graduated? How can you work while in school?

I graduated this year. My colleague has the policy to allow us to work while taking the degree. My career goal is to become a software engineer, and I realized that many of the courses I was taking in school were outdated or not directly relevant to the industry. So, I decided to work while completing my degree.

## Why are you looking for a job change?

Currently my project is about to end, and I am looking for a new opportunity to further develop my skills and experience. I'm eager to take on new challenges and work in a different environment.

## Have you worked on onsite/offshore global delivery model?

Yes, I have, previously we needed to have weekly meetings with offshore teams in China at night, to bridge the gap between teams, ensuring everyone was on the same page. The important thing is to communicate effectively.

## Difficulties working with offshore teams?

Working with offshore teams can be challenging. The time difference can make it difficult to communicate effectively. Also, the cultural differences can lead to misunderstandings.

## What is your salary expectation?

I am not authorized to discuss the rate, and tell the vendor to contact your employer for that.
