---
layout: post
title: "demo"
date: 2022-09-10
description: "demo"
tag: script demo
---

## Introduction

Good morning/afternoon/evening/night
I’m Chris. I have 6 years experience as a full stack/Java developer.

I have experienced in building applications using Java, Spring MVC, JDBC, and Hibernate. I've also built microservices using Spring Boot, Eureka, and the Feign Client. For testing, I am familiar with Junit, Mockito, JaCoCo, and Selenium. I have experience with MySQL and MongoDB for databases.
As the Cloud services, I've had hands-on experience with AWS S3, RDS, EC2, Cloud9.
Also, I am familiar with frontend like React or Angular

I currently work for Bolt, Bolt provides a simple way for merchant customers to checkout and make payments. My team is responsible for order management and my role is build and maintain the order tracking related microservice.

### Responsibilities

My team and I are responsible for order management. I was involved in developing and maintaining the order tracking related microservices, including order tracking and notification microservice. Beside these, I am also responsible for building the order tracking page using Angular. During the development, I used Factory design pattern to decoupled the app and provide an uniformed interface to handle the order tracking data provided by different carriers Apis.

## `Factory design pattern Challenge:`

Initially, the code for managing carrier data was hard-coded. But as the company grew, we encountered a challenge – each carrier had its own distinctive data format. This led to a situation where the data logic layer of our service became tightly coupled and it is hard to maintain the code.

To tackle this challenge, I used the factory design pattern to create a Factory class. It encapsulates the logic for creating carrier data handlers. Each data handler is responsible for handling one carrier api and processing the data. The Factory class will choose the handler class according to the carrier information provided.

After that, when we need to support a new carrier, I will create a new data handler class and extend the handler interface. Then update the Factory to include the new handler. With this, the business logic is decoupled, Each handler can be tested independently.It improves the maintainability and testability of the service.

## Difficult project?

In my recent project at Bolt, I am responsible for order tracking related microservices, when Seasonal offers come, like flash sales, sometimes customers report that they can not see their status after placing the order, this is a damage to the user experience.

To address this problem, I debugged the logs. I found that when we send many requests to external carrier Apis in a short time (like above 200), some of the requests were blocked or got responses around 3-5s, generally it will respond within 1s. After searching, this may be due to their Apis protection mechanism.

To solve this problem, I did thorough research and analyzed potential approaches. I considered solutions like timeout and showing some error messages, but this approach still degrades the user experience.

I also looked at how other organizations were handling similar challenges. I found that Async processing using message queue and the retry mechanism were also a good solution here to deal with it. When the carrier service responds slowly or the requests are blocked, instead of using timeout, we can queue up the request for later processing and show on frontend due to the line busy, please wait for 5-10s, and this is also good for load balancing. When processing requests in a queue, if still no response, we will resend the request.

I discussed with other team members to gather some opinions. To validate this I set up a simplified service that demonstrated how queuing requests can improve the application resilience. After that I solved this problem by using kafka.

From then, We rarely received feebacks about that and it improved the user experience.

## Difficult team members (conflict / diff opinion)

I haven't experienced working with difficult team members but sometimes we hold different opinions about things. In my recent project at Bolt, there was a time I had a difference of opinion with one of my colleagues over the choice of a message broker for our order tracking service.

Initially, I proposed using AWS (SQS) because it seemed like a convenient option given our existing infrastructure on AWS. However, my colleague suggested using Kafka instead.

To address this, I scheduled a one-on-one meeting with him to discuss our viewpoints. During the meeting, I explained why I preferred AWS SQS, emphasizing its compatibility with our current cloud services, like RDS and S3. I argued that even using kafka, we still need to deploy it somewhere. My colleague, on the other hand, was concerned about the potential risk of vendor lock-in. He made a valid point about the potential risks of relying solely on AWS, especially if some day aws goes down. He believed that using Kafka offered more flexibility for future migrations, such as using GCP.

Considering things in the long-term such as potential future migrations to GCP, became a key takeaway from this experience. I also learned to make decisions not only based on project requirements but also with a forward-thinking mindset.

Instead of being stubborn about my viewpoint, I chose to use kafka which efficiently handled the messages and enhanced the overall performance of our application.

## Deadline Problem (Mistake, slove, learned)?

This thing rarely happens to me. But in my recent project at Bolt, there was a time I almost missed the deadline, I had a ticket to fix a critical bug in order tracking service, and while I was in the middle of debugging, I met a roadblock, something wrong with the Api of my service. Fortunately we have been paying close attention to the logs, this helps a lot to narrow down the scope. To figure out what happened, I debugged the logs of the service carefully to make sure other functions in my services worked fine and finally found that the order history service (which another coworker was responsible for) crashed unexpectedly, I could not get the result I wanted. At that point, I realized that the downtime could significantly delay my progress.

So, I reported the situation to my manager. At the same time, I reached out to the coworker responsible for that service. I explained the urgency of the situation, and we set up a meeting and estimated the recovery time together. In the end, my manager rescheduled the deadline for my ticket.

Luckily, the server recovered the next day, there was no significant impact on business, and I was able to complete the ticket on time.

In this incident, What I took away was the importance of good communication and logs. A good log can help us narrow down the scope of the problem quickly. Keeping everyone in the loop, collaborating with my teammate to estimate the recovery time and discuss the solutions also contributes a lot.

## Daily routine

We hold daily standard meetings at 10 am, and after that we may have some one-on-one meetings with coworkers or with the external team in the afternoon. At other times, I am working on my own tasks, like coding, write docs, or do some research and code review. Also there will be the weekly meeting on Thursday afternoon.

## Agile (sprint, planning, review, retrospective)

We work in Agile, we have a sprint every two weeks and we release a new version every two sprint. Generally I got 1-4 tickets per sprint depending on the sprint size. We hold planning meetings ahead of each sprint and review meetings at the end of each sprint. After each quarter around three months, we have retrospective meeting to discuss the following sprints and the goals for the next quarter.

## workflow test or deploy

I am responsible for unit tests, and I will run the test to achieve 90% code coverage. For other tests like integration tests or API tests, we have a CI/CD pipeline, which will run other tests automatically (this is provided by the QA team). After making sure the unit test passed, I will commit the code to my branch (it will trigger the automation tests, this is handled by the devops team, we use Jenkins, Docker, AWS EKS for the CI/CD pipeline) After passing the test, I will create a pull request. Then I will ask my team members to review my code and merge the code to the master branch.

After several commits, we will release the new version to the production environment.

## multitask

When I had several features to implement and deploy within a short time, while handling an urgent issue in the production environment and coordinating with my coworkers to discuss business requirements.

The key is to `prioritize the tasks`.

I will break down each task into smaller, manageable pieces. This makes it easier to focus on one sub-task at a time. For instance, I will divide feature implementation into smaller development and testing phases and prioritize them based on deadlines and dependencies.

To deal with production issues, I ensure that I address the most critical problem and communicate with team effectively.

By gradually working on that, I've found that I can handle multiple tasks and finish them with high quality.

## learn new tech

For frontend, I am initially using HTML and CSS, JSTL stuff (the traditional webpage). At Bolt, we use Angular for frontend, so this is an exciting opportunity for me to learn a new frontend tech.

To get familiar quickly, I began with official online tutorials and courses to know the basic knowledge.

However, when I practice in a simple project. It is really easy to be confused by the some concepts like two way binding. Beside the tutorials, I also relied on the community and online forums to seek other peoples for helps. It was a steep learning curve.

After that, I summarized the key concepts and the basic structure of Angular. By applying Routers and Router Guard, create reusable components, and use services to handle the api calls, I successfully completed the order tracking page using Angular.

## team size, location

My company is located in San Francisco, I am working remotely. My team has 9 people, 3 full stack, 3 backend, 2 testing and 1 devops. Shi(Ricky) Yan, Brennan, Paul is the team lead

## Gain experience while studying

I graduated this year. My colleague has the policy to allow us to work while taking the degree. My career goal is to become a software engineer, and I realized that many of the courses I was taking in school were outdated or not directly relevant to the industry. So, I decided to work while completing my degree.

## why seek new job?

Currently my project is about to end, and I am looking for a new opportunity to further develop my skills and experience. I'm eager to take on new challenges and work in a different environment.

## Global delivery & Difficulties

Yes, I have, previously we needed to have weekly meetings with offshore teams in China at night, to bridge the gap between teams, ensuring everyone was on the same page. The important thing is to communicate effectively.

Working with offshore teams can be challenging. The time difference can make it difficult to communicate effectively. Also, the cultural differences can lead to misunderstandings.

## Salary expectation

I am not authorized to discuss the rate, and tell the vendor to contact your employer for that
