---
layout: post
title: "Network - TCP/IP Model / HTTP"
date: 2023-09-21
description: "basic network knowledge"
tag: Computer Network
---

# OSI VS TCP/IP

`OSI` stand for `Open System Interconnection`, which is a `conceptual` model. It is used to describe the functions of a networking system.

`TCP/IP` is a `practicial` implementation of the OSI model. It is a `protocol stack` used for communication over the internet.

OSI is conceptual and much complex, while TCP/IP is a practical model and is used widely.

# TCP/IP

## TCP/IP Model

`TCP/IP` is a protocol stack, which is a set of protocols that work together to provide communication functions. It is a four-layer model, which is a simplified version of the OSI model. These four layers are `independent` of each other, and each layer has its own protocols and functions. It is `flexiable` and `decoupled`.

### TCP/IP Layers

- Application Layer
- Transport Layer
- Internet Layer
- Network Access Layer

### 1. Application Layer

Application layer is the top layer, it provide functionallity to `exchange message` between application programs and users. It defines the protocols and data formats used by application programs for `exchanging messages`.

HTTP, FTP, SMTP, DNS, SSH,, etc.

### 2. Transport Layer

Transport layer is responsible for `end-to-end communication` between two computers. It is responsible for `breaking up` the message into `smaller packets` and `re-assembling` the packets into the original message.

It use TCP or UDP protocols.

`TCP` is a `connection-oriented`, `reliable` protocol. It is used for `critical` data transmission.

`UDP` is a `connectionless`, `unreliable` protocol. It is used for `non-critical` data transmission. like the video streaming.

### 3. Internet Layer

Internet layer is responsible for `transmitting packets` from one host to another host. It is responsible for `routing` the packets.

It use `IP`, `ARP`, `NAT` protocol.

`ARP` : translate IP address to MAC address.

`NAT` : translate private IP address to public IP address.

### 4. Network Access Layer

Network access layer is responsible for `transmitting data` between two computers on the same network. It is responsible for `transmitting packets` from one host to another host.

## TCP VS UDP

1. TCP is a connection-oriented protocol, while UDP is a connectionless protocol.

2. TCP is a reliable protocol, while UDP is an unreliable protocol.

3. TCP is stateful, while UDP is stateless.

## **TCP Three-way Handshake**

1. Client send a `SYN` packet to the server. Means the client want to establish a connection with the server.

   ```
   Client: know nothing about the server
   Server : Server can receive, client can send
   ```

2. Server send a `SYN-ACK` packet to the client. Means the server agree to establish a connection with the client. **(send SYN back is to let client make sure the server receive the message client send)**

   ```
   Client: Client can send and receive, Server can send and receive
   Server: Server can receive, client can send (same as the first step)
   ```

3. Client send a `ACK` packet to the server. Means the client agree to establish a connection with the server, and finish the three-way handshake.
   ```
   Client: Client can send and receive, Server can send and receive
   Server: Server can send and receive, client can send and receive
   ```

Goal: make sure the client and the server both can send and receive data.

## **TCP Four-way Handshake**

1. Client send a `FIN` packet to the server. Means the client want to close the connection with the server.

2. Server send a `ACK` packet to the client. Means the server receive the message client send. server comes to `CLOSE_WAIT` state.

3. Server send a `FIN` packet to the client. Means the server want to close the connection with the client.

4. Client send a `ACK` packet to the server. Means the client receive the message server send. client comes to `TIME_WAIT` state. (wait for 2MSL, if no message from the server, client will close the connection) If server do not receive the `ACK` packet, server will re-send the `FIN` packet. 2MSL is to make sure the server receive the `ACK` packet.

**As long as the four handshake do not finish, server and client can still send data**
